Alright, in this video we are going to
take a look at Spring Data JPA query
methods. Now this reminds me, I used to do
a lot of Grails development. They had dynamic
query methods or dynamic finders I
called it in the Grails world and this
is very similar where we can create a
method name using a property and say
find by property name as a whole naming
convention where we have finders and we
can string together different properties. So we can say find by description and
location and pass in those values. And
what's going to happen underneath the
covers is Spring data JPA is going to go
in and create that query based on the
criteria that was found inside the
method name. So this is a very important
feature. It saves us a ton of work and
it's very very versatile. It will adapt a
lot of different situations. Now all we
need to do is go to the repositories and
define a method in the interface. So we'll define a method and what I want
to do is create a couple dynamic finders
for the data that we're populating in
unit of measure and category. I want to be
able to look up by description so we can
get a hold of that record. Easily for
other purposes that we're going to see
in the course here soon,
and we'll set up these dynamic finders
so we can go and look up that data. And what I want you to do is as you
go through this, realize that we are just
creating the method name inside the
interface and then Spring Data JPA
is going to provide us the
implementation and also via Hibernate,
it's going to give us all the plumbing
that we need to do to go fetch something
out of the database. And you're going to
know that we're not going to write any
SQL to go get data out of the database.
It's all going to be done for us by
Spring Data JPA.
And this is why Spring Data JPA is just
so popular right now because it makes
your life as a Java developer, as a
Spring developer, working with databases
so much easier. So I'm going to jump over
to IntelliJ now and show you how to set
up a couple dynamic
finders or I should say muesli grills
world. So these are called query methods
in the Spring Data world. So I'm going to  jump over
to IntelliJ now and show you exactly how
to do that. Alright I am back inside of
IntelliJ now and we can still see the
data.sql file that I added in the
previous video and these are the values
that we are populating inside the
database. And what we want to do is to be
able to get a hold of these objects from
the database. So I'm going to just come
over here and let's look at Category and
let's look at the domain class for
Category and we have the the one
property description. So what we want to
do here is we're going to come into the Category
Repository and we are going to specify,
double check this. So Spring Data coming
into Spring 5 is now using optional. So this is a good habit to get into. So
this was a change made between Spring
4 and Spring 5 and I am going to
follow that and continue to use the
Java 8 type of optional for our
purposes. So what I want to do is do a...
Now before, Spring Data would just return
null. Now it's going to return the
Optional type and we can see that
IntelliJs intellisense is coming up
for the query method. So I want to do
findByDescription and I could chain
that out to multiple options but I don't
need to. So find by is going to find one,
find all returns a list. So we just
want to find one and we're going to
pretend that our description is unique
even though we didn't set it up as
unique. That'll be fine for our
purposes and we are going to say String
and that's really all we need to do
there. So we've got this findBy
Description and what we want to do is
the same thing for UnitOfMeasure. We
will do that, we will also use Optional here
and it will optionally return back the
UnitOfMeasure, findByDescription and
say by description there again. So these
are the two finders and now we'll
just do a poor man's way of showing this
and we'll do it on our IndexController.
We well inject an instance of the CategoryRepository. Now just as a reminder, we are
going to do constructor based dependency
injection and because I am calling for
it and construct your other component
Spring going to go ahead and
automatically wire that in for us. And
what we are going to do, to show the
Category,
and we'll say a categoryRepository, findByDescription. Let's come over here and
look at the Category description. So we
had American, I am cutting paste and just
to make sure we don't wind up with any
problems with a case or me fat fingering
something. Let's do the same for UnitOfMeasure. I'm also going to go over and go
right to the SQL here and we'll grab teaspoon,
paste that in and in IntelliJ, I'm just
typing us out which will give us an
autocomplete for that. And what we want
to do is a Cat id is and we'll catenate
the categoryOptional.get() and we'll
say getId(). Let's do the same thing for
the UnitOfMeasure. Add a little space there.
getId(). Now let's go ahead and run this
and when we go to the index page, we'll
see that output to the console for us. Spring Boot is coming up. We are almost up
and running, we are now on localhost 8080. So I'm going to come over here. localhost
8080, you see my recipes. That's the text
from our Thymeleaf template and let's go
over and take a look and we can see down
here. Cat Id is 1 and UOM Id is 1
down there in the bottom left hand
corner. So that validates that we
did go out to the database, we queried
the database, got an object back from
that query method and it was an Optional.
You can see there in line 32 and 33 I'm
doing the
method to get the optional out of it
which is going to give me an instance of
Category or UnitOfMeasure respectively.
And then I'm concatenating that into the
String by getting the Id and we can see
that in both cases, we got the Id number
1. Alright so you can see the query
methods in action there, how they worked
and how we were able to get those
properties out of the database and get a
hand on those objects and query the
database just by setting up a method
name. I think this is probably one of the
coolest features of Spring Data JPA and
it's a huge huge time-saver for us.